
4.3	Testing and Support
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Testing and project support is one of the priorities of DGT Networks. The following quality assurance policies are welcomed in the community:

•	Any written code should be accompanied by the creation of an automated text that should be granular enough to test specific functionality. 

•	To track errors, we use a bug tracking system, which can be accessed by any project participant (`see 4.2`_). For this, you need to contact `partnership@dgt.world`_. 

•	The project code is in the GitHub repository and is open for audit. We are ready to answer any additional questions and consider your suggestions. 

•	Any software (especially the more complex and distributed one) contains errors and shortcomings, the identification of which depends on the duration of testing (MTBF). 

•	The performance of distributed solutions is highly dependent on the use case. The number of processed transactions, scalability, the impact on the latency of an individual node is determined by a combination of factors. We believe that thanks to F-BFT, we are developing a high-performance network, open for collaboration on system testing, following the recommended framework Hyperledger Caliper. 

•	The quality of our architecture is based on measurable metrics for scalability, flexibility, modularity, etc. 

•	We support a probabilistic approach to identifying information security risks. Ever since the Mississauga version, DGT has a built-in Byzantine attack testing system capable of identifying distributed system-specific vulnerabilities. 

•	DGT pays significant attention to compliance with the requirements for the protection of privacy. For this purpose, its own k-anonymity control library is used. Another important aspect that we consider when developing projects is compliance with regulatory requirements and protection of intellectual property. 

Community members will be happy to hear any request for details on the issues described and are ready to provide the necessary clarifications and demonstrations. 

 .. _partnership@dgt.world: partnership@dgt.world

 .. _see 4.2: 4.2_DGT_Development_Contributing.html